---
title: We Love a Rewrite
date: 2025-03-16T00:00:00.000Z
description: So I chose to rewrite my portfolio site. Building a portfolio site is the quintessential software engineer side project. We get to learn a frontend framework or tool and express ourselves through lines of code, oftentimes in ways that we can't on the job. They are (or at least can be) poster boards of who we are and the things we learn along this lil lifelong journey.
seo:
  title: We love a rewrite
  description: So I chose to rewrite my portfolio site. Building a portfolio site is the quintessential software engineer side project. We get to learn a frontend framework or tool and express ourselves through lines of code, oftentimes in ways that we can't on the job. They are (or at least can be) poster boards of who we are and the things we learn along this lil lifelong journey.
  tags: tech,personal
navigation:
  description: So I chose to rewrite my portfolio site. Building a portfolio site is the quintessential software engineer side project. We get to learn a frontend framework or tool and express ourselves through lines of code, oftentimes in ways that we can't on the job. They are (or at least can be) poster boards of who we are and the things we learn along this lil lifelong journey.
  title: We love a rewrite
  icon: https://tunjiproductions.com/.netlify/images?w=350&url=%2Fimg%2Flogo_clear.png
excerpt:
  type: minimal
  children: So I chose to rewrite my portfolio site. Building a portfolio site is the quintessential software engineer side project
tags:
  - tech
  - personal
thumb: /blog/1/bg.png
---

::hero
---
artist: Samuel Adetunji - Lubbock, TX
src: /blog/1/bg.png
url: /blog/1/bg.png
---
::

I chose to rewrite my portfolio site and if you're reading this then, [welcome](/blog/readme){.underline.hover:no-underline.text-green-700.hover:text-green-400}.
Building a portfolio site is the quintessential software engineer side project. We get to learn a frontend
framework or tool and express ourselves through lines of code, oftentimes in ways that we can't on the job.
Usually following some guide or tutorial. They are (or at least can be) poster boards of who we are and the
things we've learn along this lifelong journey of (hopefully) building cool stuff.

<!--more-->

So **surely** its something to be proud of. "Yeah I built it years ago and its kind of dusty but THIS IS MY MAGNUM OPUS!!"

### Denial is a River

::row{src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/1eTaznNW4Xxtx9za2SMTXB?utm_source=generator"}
::StringList
---
blurb: Over the years I'd wander over to my "opus" to pay my respects to a job well done only to find that it lost a little bit of its luster.
items:
  - blurb: Why'd you choose green for the project cards?
  - blurb: You do know the logo isn't centered right? Because everyone else knows…. yeeaaah just keep scrolling.
  - blurb: Do I need a whole database for just this? Supabase isn't free.
  - blurb: Do I really wanna showcase this? :/
---
::
::

::blurb
The grin of satisfaction eventually turned into a grimace. I stopped tacking it onto job applications. The perks of having the site like adding my own "Songs of the Day" were replaced by other projects like [TwoTone](https://twotone.app){.underline.hover:no-underline.text-green-700.hover:text-green-400}. Eventually the cringe kept me away from a project that I had spent days planning and building. I was disappointed partially because it didn't feel like a representation of what I could do as an engineer but also because after every one of those visits what I thought was gold slowly turned into pyrite.
::

::blurb
Yeah... I built it years ago and its kind of dusty.
::

### We're our hardest critics

[You can check out version 1 here](https://release-test--tunjiprod.netlify.app/){.underline.hover:no-underline.text-green-700.hover:text-green-400}
but the long and short of it is the project that I was so proud of didn't grow with me. That was a bitter ass pill to swallow.

::blurb
Junior year Sam was convinced that the gigantic green cards were super sick. Sure they were a kind of obnoxious and the concept of
spacing things out wasn't a thing but its sick and its mine and I can do what I want. The admin page that I have a whole postgres
server supporting definitely wasn't overkill despite it being repurposed for the TwoTone. (More on that another time.) "THE 
NOTEBOOK BACKGROUND'S ICONIC NO??!?" I'd tell myself in an effort to convince a version of me with an actual frontal lobe. 
::

::blurb
Although the notebook is actually sick, more and more of the site felt like bloat. Our internal voices can be brutal but thankfully
I did end up finding a couple of things I was and will forever be proud of.
::

::StringList
---
items:
  - blurb: The hero card contains the energy I will always exude.
  - blurb: Hand-drawn everything.
  - blurb: I repeat - The notebook background is iconic.
---
::

So instead of wallowing in despair about what un-lobed Sam made and a domain name that I'm already paying for, I figured I'd make 
something that I can be proud of now. The time spent wasn't time wasted but my opus needed its shine back and if I could knock 
out some side-missions along the way with that then those occasional visits to the site would be a lot less occasional.

### Goals

Whenever I start a new project the goal is to learn and/or do something cool and this wouldn't be an exception. 
[Funnily enough that rule was inspired by this project in 2023](https://github.com/Guysnacho/tunjiprod/commit/c3fd93eac251e1f9067e3e23485481c87a115b0a){.underline.hover:no-underline.text-green-700.hover:text-green-400}.
when I set out to build *V1* using the exact same framework I wrote *V2* with - [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/){.underline.hover:no-underline.text-green-700.hover:text-green-400}. 
I gave up on Nuxt because I couldn't wrap my head around Nuxt Modules and the new (at the time) Vue 3 changes 
but we'd be bringing it back. On top of learning Nuxt and relearning Vue, the site needed to serve a purpose and 
look good while doing it. Thankfully I already had a head start on some requirements and side-missions to knock out -

::StringList
---
items:
  - blurb: The notebook background is cute, whatever I made needed to keep it.
  - 
    blurb: Hand drawn everything needed to make a return.
    sublist: 
      - We're making it too easy for the AI to take over.
      - Is there a better way to show some personality than writing or drawing?.
  - 
    blurb: Try to field test Vue for real this time around.
    sublist:
      - I gave up on it the first go-around. Lets see if its an "I'm bad" or "its bad" type of situation.
      - Nuxt was overwhelming at the time but I also knew nothing about web development. Now I couldn't say the same.
  - blurb: Make something I'd actually use.
  - blurb: Bring over Songs of the Day as a TwoTone Archive.
---
::

::blurb
What you see now is the *final* product (v.2-rev12). *Final* because this, like [TwoTone](https://twotone.app){.underline.hover:no-underline.text-green-700.hover:text-green-400}
will be lifelong projects. It wasn't always this pretty but the journey to get to this point turned into the 
highlight. Now let's breakdown the trials and tribulations (learning Vue, getting over the framework magic, 
finally getting a little bit more comfy with CSS, and conquering some demons along the way).
::

## Personal Pains

### CSS: Notably not as scary as I thought

::blurb
Self-explanatory but let's break it down. Vue allows (if not forces) you to define your styling
and JavaScript within the same file as your HTML. Cute and convenient until you actually need to 
style something.
<br/>
<br/>
Tailwind bridges most of the gap of quickly laying out your page, coloring, and buttons but if 
you want something cool done like handling an animation or adding overlays on a super sick notebook 
background image of a site... then you've got no choice but to get your hands dirty with CSS.

All I can say is the MDN docs are carrying modern development. Gotta give credit where its due.
::

### 🧙🏾‍♂️ Framework Magic ✨

::blurb
Frameworks are a blessing and a curse. Take Spring Boot for example.
::

::StringList
---
items:
  - blurb: Provides plenty of helpful defaults
  - blurb: Provides tested solutions for truly hard problems
  - blurb: Usually operates in silence until you break something
---
::

::blurb
Its all fun and games until you need to customize a factory for the first time. The magic that 
happens silently under the hood now needs tweaks and until you have a finer understanding of 
the framework you'll be lost. For Spring, that's usually dependency injection of beans and their 
time of instantiation. With learning Vue and Nuxt, it was fun and games until I couldn't distinguish
installed components/modules from my own components or until I couldn't figure out why tailwind 
wasn't working or even worse, why my Blog pages weren't loading as expected.
::

::blurb
*Spoilers - Don't forget your `setup` annotation in script tags.*
::

::blurb
A lot of these problems can be solved by actually reading through the docs that these engineers have 
spent months if not years building up. For Nuxt they were readily available enough that I couldn't 
really complain. If I understood the framework a little bit more instead of just diving in then I 
wouldn't have fought with my app for 2 days.
::

### Nuxt Content

::blurb
Now if you want to use a Git-powered markdown system for building out a blog like this, you might be
blessed Nuxt Studio docs. I wanted to write all of my articles in their web-based markdown editor and 
ship content that way. It sounded cool and lightweight and I figured I'd follow the simple installation 
docs and add Nuxt Studio to my project.
::

::blurb
Weird that after installation things weren't working like the docs said they would. From compilation 
errors to failed deployments, something felt out of balance and it was only after I started cooking on
the biggest part of the site. I figured maybe I just needed to put in some more work into setup and that 
I was using Nuxt modules incorrectly. Surely I just need all these extra dependencies to enable a web 
because there are some extra bindings or work done on the backend to be able to ship changes and blah blah 
blah blah blah.
::

::blurb
Turns out [the entire site was defunct](https://nuxt.studio/docs/get-started/introduction){.underline.hover:no-underline.text-green-700.hover:text-green-400}.
After leveling up my reading comprehension I found out that it wasn't an issue with extra site bindings 
and integrations. Nuxt Studio setup had just been absorbed into the Nuxt Content docs leaving the original 
site up with out of date content. I had just missed the giant banner that pointed developers to the latest 
and greatest instructions. This helped me maintain my sanity. From this point on, the rest of the build was 
smooth sailing.
::

## Wrap Up

::blurb
I'm really glad I came back to this project and gave it the time it deserves. Not
only that, its also a huge full circle moment for me to come back to Vue. Its the
first framework that I took seriously and using it for my personal portfolio just
feels right.
::

::blurb
*V2* might eventually lose its luster over time and another more seasoned Sam 
might look back at it with that same voice and say "Why's it look like that?" and that's okay. This whole 
process is iterative and if it doesn't get cooler and evolve then that'd be the real tragedy.
::

::blurb
Take your time and enjoy *V2*. Feel free to check out my other articles too, peace nd love.
::
